# What is Angular?

Angular is a development platform, built on [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

As a platform, Angular includes:

- A component-based framework for building scalable web applications
- A collection of well-integrated libraries that cover a wide variety of features, including routing, forms management, client-server communication, and more
- A suite of developer tools to help you develop, build, test, and update your code

With Angular, you're taking advantage of a platform that can scale from single-developer projects to enterprise-level applications. Best of all, the Angular ecosystem consists of a diverse group of over 1.7 million developers, library authors, and content creators.

--- 

## Prerequisites

Like most modern frameworks, Angular expects you to be familiar with HTML, CSS and JavaScript. In addition, it’s recommended to have familiarity with the following concepts and tools:

### Concepts

- [JavaScript Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes)
- [TypeScript fundamentals](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/typescript-in-5-minutes.html)
- [TypeScript Decorators](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/decorators.html)

### Tools

- TypeScript - This is shipped by default with every Angular app to provide improved tooling and enhanced maintainability for a better developer experience.
- Command Line Interface (CLI) - Angular uses a compiler in order to abstract tooling complexity and optimize your code so you can focus on building your app.

--- 

## Components

Components are the fundamental building block for creating applications in Angular. By leveraging component architecture, Angular aims to provide structure for organizing your project into manageable, well organized parts with clear responsibilities so that your code is maintainable and scalable.

An Angular component can be identified by the `component` suffix e.g., `my-custom-name.component.ts` and has the following:

- A decorator to define configuration options for things like:
  - A selector that defines what the tag name is when referring a component in a template
  - An HTML template that controls what is rendered to the browser
- A TypeScript class that defines the behavior of the component. Examples include handling user input, managing state, defining methods, etc.

Here is a simplified example of a TodoListItem component.

```ts
// 📄 todo-list-item.component.ts
@Component({
  standalone: true,
  selector: 'todo-list-item',
  template: ` <li>(TODO) Read cup of coffee introduction</li> `,
  styles: ['li { color: papayawhip; }'],
})
export class TodoListItem {
  /* Component behavior is defined in here */
}
```

### Behavior

Now that we have the basic structure for the component, let’s learn more about how you define the component’s behavior.

#### State

When defining data that you want the component to manage, this can be accomplished by declaring it by defining [class fields](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/classes.html#fields).

In the example of a `todo-list-item.component.ts`, there are two properties we want to track: `taskTitle` and `isComplete`. Using the [class field syntax](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/classes.html#fields), they can be defined as follows:

```ts
// 📄 todo-list-item.component.ts
@Component({ ... })
export class TodoList {
  taskTitle = '';
  isComplete = false;
}
```

#### Methods

You can define functions for a component by declaring methods within the component class.

```ts
// 📄 todo-list-item.component.ts
@Component({ ... })
export class TodoList {
  taskTitle = '';
  isComplete = false;

  updateTitle(newTitle: string) {
    this.taskTitle = newTitle;
  }

  completeTask() {
    this.isComplete = true;
  }
}
```

### Templates

Every component has an HTML template that defines what that component renders to the DOM.

HTML templates can be defined as an inline template within the TypeScript class, or in separate files with the `templateUrl` property. To learn more, check out [the docs on defining component templates](https://v17.angular.io/guide/component-overview#defining-a-components-template).

Within this document, the examples will use inline templates for more concise code snippets.

#### Rendering Dynamic Data

When you need to display dynamic content in your template, Angular uses the double curly brace syntax in order to distinguish between static and dynamic content.

```ts
@Component({
  template: ` <p>Title: {{ taskTitle }}</p> `,
})
export class TodoListItem {
  taskTitle = 'Read cup of coffee';
}
```

This is how it renders to the page.

```html
<p>Title: Read cup of coffee</p>
```

This syntax declares an interpolation between the dynamic data property inside of the HTML. As a result, whenever the data changes, Angular will automatically update the DOM reflecting the new value of the property.

#### Dynamic Properties and Attributes

When you need to dynamically set the value of attributes in an HTML element, the target property is wrapped in square brackets. This binds the attribute with the desired dynamic data by informing Angular that the declared value should be interpreted as a JavaScript-like statement ([with some Angular enhancements](https://v17.angular.io/guide/understanding-template-expr-overview)) instead of a plain string.

```html
<button [disabled]="hasPendingChanges"></button>
```
In this example, the disabled property is tied to the `hasPendingChanges` variable that Angular would expect to find within the component’s state.

#### Event Handling

You can bind event listeners by specifying the event name in parenthesis and invoking a method on the right-hand-side of the equals sign:

```html
<button (click)="saveChanges()">Save Changes</button>
```

If you need to pass the event object to your event listener, Angular provides an implicit `$event` variable that can be used inside the function call:

```html
<button (click)="saveChanges($event)">Save Changes</button>
```

### Styles